---
file_format: mystnb
kernelspec:
    name: python3
---


# Welcome, Introduction, and Setup


Today:
- intros
- what the *learning* goals of the course are
- see how in class time will work
- start learning git/github by doing (we'll cover the theory *after* the practical)
  
Not Today:
- syllabus review (on your own time/lab Monday)
- cours policy discussion (next week)

## Introductions

- Dr. Sarah Brown
- Please address me as Dr. Brown or Professor Brown, 
- Ms./Mrs. are not acceptable

You can see more about me in the about section of the syllabus.

## Why think like a computer?

## Prismia 

- instead of slides
- you can message us
- we can see all of your responses
- emoji!

questions can  be "graded" 

- this is instant feedback
- participation will be checked
- correctness will not impact your final grade[^incorrect]
- this helps both me and you know how you are doing



[^incorrect]: if you are consistenly gettign questions wrong, because you do not understand and never figure the things out, that will eventually impact your grade. ⚓ If you are reading this in hover text, take a screenshot, then [log a community badge](#badges:process:community) with the url for this footnote and the text `footerhover` and include the screen shot in the PR comment. 




## This course is structured a bit different than many classes


- no Brightspace
- 300 level = more independence
- I will give advice, but only hold you accountable to a minimal set
- High expectations, with a lot of flexibility


> as an aside [another Professor describing](https://www.insidehighered.com/opinion/career-advice/teaching/2024/08/28/learning-management-systems-help-make-college-do-list) what she does not like about learning management systems (LMS). Brightspace is one, she talks about Canvas in the post, but they are similar.


### Judgement free absences 

- **No need to tell me in advance**
- For 1 class no need to tell me why at all-- make it up and keep moving
- For longer absences, I will help you plan how to get caught up, and you must meet university criteria for excused absences

The specific policy around this is in the [grading section of the syllabus on Experience Badges](#grading:experience)


### My focus is for you to learn


- that means: practice, feedback, and reflection
- you should be able to apply this material in other courses
- you should know that you have learned and be able to talk about it in an interview

### Learning comes in many forms

- different types of material are best remembered in different ways
- some things are hard to explain with words, but watching it is very concrete

## Learning is the goal

- producing outputs as fast as possible is **not** learning
- in a job, you *may* get paid to do things fast
- your work also needs to be correct, without someone telling you it is
- in a job you are trusted to know your work is correct, your boss does not check your work or grade you
- to get a job, you have to interview, which means explaining, in words, to another person how to do something

## What about AI?

Large Language Models will change what programming looks like, but *understanding* is always going to be more effective than asking an AI.  Large language models actually do not *know* any facts, they just generate text that is statistically similar to text in their training data.


## How does this work? 

### In class:

1. Memory/ understanding check
1. Review/ clarification as needed
1. New topic demo with follow along, tiny practice
1. Review, submit questions

and repeat

### Outside of class:


1. Read notes to refresh your memory, check your understanding, and find more details
1. Complete badges to apply material that has been taught
1. Prepare for class to activate your memory of related things to what we will cover
1. Read articles/ watch videos to either fill in gaps or learn more details
1. Bring questions to class



## Getting started 


Your KWL chart is where you will start by tracking what you know now/before we start and what you want to learn about each topic.  Then you will update it throughout the semester. You will also add material to the {term}`{term}`repository`` to produce evidence of your learning.

:::{important}
Hover over the word {term}`repository` here or above to see a definition
:::

::::::{tip}
 links are often hints or more information, including links provided in prismia. 

 Almost all links provided in prismia will appear in the notes too
:::::

##  What is this course about?


In your KWL chart, there are a lot of different topics that are not obviously related, so what is this course really about?

- practical exposure to important tools
- design features of those tool categories
- basic knowledge of many parts of the CS core
- focus on the connections

We will use learning the tools to understand how computer scientists think and work.

Then we will use the tools to examine the field of Computer Science top to bottom (possibly out of order).

### How it fits into your CS degree

knowing where you've been and where we're going will help you understand and remember

_this describes the BS; BA drops some of the math_

In CSC110, you learn to program in python and see algorithms from a variety of domain areas where computer science is applied.


Then in CSC 340 and 440 you study the algorithms more mathematically, their complexity, etc.


In CSC211, 212, you learn the foundations of computer science: general programming and data structures.


Then in 301, 305, 411, 412 you study different aspects of software design and how computers work.

In this class, we're going to connect different ideas. We are going to learn the tools used by computer scientists, deeply. You will understand why the tools are the way they are and how to use them even when things go wrong.

## GitHub Docs are really helpful and have screenshots

:::::{important}
Since GitHub changes a lot, I will not take screenshots and instead, link you to their docs
::::::

- [editing a file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files)
- [pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)

they pay people to update them so I direct you to theirs mostly instead of recreating them

Today we did the following:
1. Accept the assignment to create your {term}`repo <repository>`: [KWL Chart](https://classroom.github.com/a/zQQHGRjN) 
1. Edit the README to add your name by clicking the pencil icon ([editing a file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files) step 2)
1. adding a descriptive commit message ([editing a file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files) step 5)
2. adding prior knowledge
3. created a new branch (named `prior_knowledge`) ([editing a file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files) step 7-8)
4. added a message to the Pull Request ([pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) step 5)
5. Creating a pull request ([pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) step 6)
6. Clicking Merge Pull Request

See prismia for a link to join the team

## Git and GitHub terminology


We also discussed some of the terminology for git. We will also come back to these ideas in greater detail later.

### GitHub Actions

GitHub allows us to run scripts within our repos, the feature is called GitHub Actions and the individual items are called workflows.

Navigate to your actions tab

## Get Credit for Today's class


**Run your Experience Reflection (inclass) action on your kwl {term}`repo <repository>`**

*talk with peers to make sure you remember what the right way to click on it is*



On the created PR, go to the `Files` section, edit the file, and commit the changes.


## Prepare for Next Class 

```{include} ../_prepare/2025-09-09.md
```

## Badges



`````{tab-set}
````{tab-item} Review
```{include} ../_review/2025-09-04.md
```
````

````{tab-item} Practice
```{include} ../_practice/2025-09-04.md
```

````
`````

## Experience Report Evidence

Your repo must exist

## Questions After Today's Class 

::::{warning}
these will be added late today
::::